You might ask yourself, why would NiceHash create a miner that is very similar to the existing [NiceHash Miner](https://github.com/nicehash/NiceHashMiner)? The answer is explained on this page.

For NiceHash Miner to fully work, it relies on 3rd party plugins and miners. In most cases, these are programs of **unverified and unknown origin**. Authors of these programs are not known by their real names or there is no company that stands behind the software. Why developers of these programs keep their identity so private is unknown to us. There could be various reasons. Most likely, the reasons are not to harm miners, because they all charge developer fee for using their miner. But we cannot be fully sure that they have no intention of **ever** putting anything harmful inside their programs. Trusting them blindly would be a big mistake. That is why, if you want to use NiceHash Miner, you need to agree with that, confirm and acknowledge that and if these unknown developers really do something stupid one day, NiceHash cannot be held liable.

That means, if you use your PC for serious business, have important information on it or even coins or money, it is best **NOT** to use 3rd party miners from unknown origin. Luckily, NiceHash has created own miner in the past called [Excavator](https://github.com/nicehash/excavator). The code running is entirely developed in-house and NiceHash can vouch that there is nothing harmful inside. Another lucky factor is, that speeds Excavator reaches in daggerhashimoto (Ethereum mining) are completely comparable to other miners with devfee and when you also calculate in devfee, Excavator can be, in most cases, even more profitable than 3rd party miners.

But using Excavator on it's own is not so simple - you need to configure command files and prepare everything for your machine to work properly.

That is why we created another product for end user called NiceHash QuickMiner, which does all the **hard & tricky** configuration automatically so you just click buttons and don't have to worry about too deep technical stuff.

Because all the code of Excavator plus wrapper (QuickMiner) is made by NiceHash, there is no risk involved with anything harmful being put in. NiceHash is a public service, run by publicly known company from EU - Slovenia - H-BIT d.o.o., which means there are real people behind software. It is much easier to trust a software of known origin, because you know, that if there was anything harmful put in, there are people who could be held liable for it.

Now you know difference between NiceHash Miner and NiceHash QuickMiner. The choice at the end is yours. You need to ask yourself: **Do I want my PC to be fully secure when I install miner?** If the answer is YES, then you should install NiceHash QuickMiner. If you do not have any sensitive information on your PC or you do not care about that, you can go with NiceHash Miner.